In chapter 11, Dr. Moss explains there are two behaviors, non violent herding (reproduction) and swarming (violent, destruction).  There is another state "hunting", it may not yet be apparent at this point because it depends on the turned being hungry and until food runs out they are not generally hungry.  In this state they sneak, chase, attack solitary or in small groups.  They try doors, smash windows, tear at obsticles even if they become damaged in the process.  They ignore damage or danger.  Because of this some level of fortification will be necessary.  There should be hints, the animals such as cows would not just die on their own or easily, brief glimpses of purposeful movement a crouching slow run toward an area with food or people.  The turned immediatly turn into hunters if they are attacked, hunters make a sound to call out to other turned which in turn activates them as hunters.  Hunters are directed, swarms are mindless chaos, madness, absolute destruction of themselves, their environment and anything around them incluiding other turned if nothing else is available.

The survivors should have some kind of test when new people arrive, we know they can mimic.  If they have not been previously observed they will be suspect.  The Lyles would be suspicious of the people that show up to their house and would have to clear them somehow.

The turned should gradually start discarding clothing because it blocks the sunlight they need for photosynthesis. But the survivors should not know yet this is the reason before it is figured out.

The characters need more depth.  They should have subtle character flaws that others need to be mindful of, such as selfishness, cowardice, anger, greed, vanity, pride, obstinance, arrogance, subtle racism, sexism, *ism's.  Nates is cowardice and lazyness and vanity to some extent.  He thinks he knows better than others, and he often does.  Sienna is impatient and impulsive.  These character traits do not change the current story arc but can be used to explain their actions or lack of action.  They should not be overtly stated, but inferred from their actions or noted by nate or in conversation.  They are concerns to be managed, mitigated, not fatal flaws just another thing to take into account and deal with as appropriate.  As characters notice these traits in themselves they should take deliberate action to overcome them.  They will notice because interactions they could afford to ignore in the past are now critical for their own survival in this small group and they can't just walk away when things get uncomfortable.  Personal growth is a survival trait.

There should be some kind of discussion of what happens if someone turns in their sleep from a nightmare.  Do they keep a watch at all times, do they restrict or isolate people who are a potential danger, lock them in a room?  Bind them somehow?  How do they know that if someone turns that they are not mimicing who they were before?  If it happens when someone is watching they would see the smile, but if nobody notices?  How do they deal with it if someone among them turns?  Would the person want to be exiled? Killed? Experimented on?  What are the moral implications?  What would a person that turned do if alone at night among a bunch of sleeping people?  It should he horrifying somehow.

They should consider distraction tactics.  Can they influence the different types of turned?  Breeders can be attracted by sound, light, motion.  Hunters can also be diverted by the same.  Swarmers are beyond reason or distraction.  In chapter 12 sienna would prepare a distraction for the turned if things went badly for nate.

The lyles would have attracted quite a few other survivors before the attack.  They have been broacasting for quite some time.  Nate would explain what happened at the military checkpoint.

13 - can dale use other more avilable drugs when his run out?